---
title: "Why am I creating a blog?"
---

I've been thinking about a way to share my projects, ideas and notes for a long time now.

## How did I build this website

### Why not Medium ?

Not being able to use $ \LaTeX $ in Medium convinced me not make the effort and host a blog elsewhere.\\
Sure, you can always find a trick to display your formulas there, but I still feel like I want to write my math in my Markdown file and be able to change it without going through the process of generating new images only to embed them in a post (I use this [LaTeX equations online editor](https://www.codecogs.com/latex/eqneditor.php) which is great to create slides). I might decide to publish a few things on Medium later on, but for now, this website should do the trick.

### Why go with Jekyll ?

I felt like building this website would be a good web development experience as I decided to go with the Jekyll framework. After navigating through templates websites, I found the [Minimal Mistakes](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/) template. It looks great, is easily customizable, responsive, exactly what I wanted for this website.\\
Jekyll is the framework I most commonly saw when it came to personnal website for the machine learning community, is popular and highly supported.

### Why not WordPress ?

WordPress is too mainstream, I guess 🤷. Also, I already tried building a static website hosted on GitHubPages with WordPress (see [this website I build for a friend's project](https://wesbz.github.io/PEC)) and it was a pain. WordPress generates so many files, you can't just edit one tiny little bit without going through a long building process.